# Applied Data Science Capstone Project

This repository is part of IBM Applied Data Science Course Capstone Project which is offered through Coursera.
In this repository, I highlights my approach in analyzing and clustering neighborhoods in the city of Surabaya. 

## Introduction to The Business Problems
In this project, I take a role as an analyst that help hotel managers or owners in deciding which part of Surabaya is the best location to establish a new luxury (5 stars) hotel. Location is the most crucial aspect for hotel owners, because different locations may have different surroundings and venues that also attract different types of travelers. The success of a hotel depends largely on the location of its site. For this reason, hotel owners must carefully decide which parts of the city to choose according to the type and price of the hotel. In order to decide the most appropriate location, there are several factors that should be considered in advanced. For this project, the factor to be considered is the surrounding location offering, such as restaurants, bus line, banks, and so forth. In addition, this project will focus only on the city of Surabaya, as the second largest city in Indonesia and the capital of the province of East Java.

## Info
In this projects, I have demonstrated various skills related to the role of data scientist. In the circumstances where the Surabaya neighborhoods code and name are not  available, I have used Beatifulsoup to get the required data by performing a web scraping technique from a Wikipedia page. I have also showcased the ability to make a  RESTful API calls to the Foursquare API in order to obtain and process the venues information for each neighborhoods. For pre-processing, manipulating, and working with data, I have used the Python programming langague and its associated packages namely Pandas and NumPy. I have also done Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) creating a bar graph and a boxplot. Both visualizations assist me in communicating my findings to a wider audiences. Moreover, I have utilized Folium package to create a very beautiful map of the city of Surabaya and its neighborhoods and venues. Last but not least, I have performed a k-Means clustering, which is the most popular Machine Learning clustering algorithm for grouping similar neighborhoods that have the same venue characteristics. The clustered neighborhoods is shown on the map so that the distribution of different clustered neighborhoods can be seen clearly.
